# Introduction #

We suppose you are familiar with terms like "Entity" and Service. Also we suppose you know JPA pronciples and some ORM tool (Hibernate, EclipseLink ... etc)

FishEar works with JPA annotated classes only since it is only the way how to make it ORM tool independent.


Entities are classes anntated by JPA "Entity" annotation.


## Using Entities in FishEar ##

entity must implement [EntityI](EntityI.md) interface to be able to work in FishEar system.

The aeasiest way is to extend [AbstractEntity](AbstractEntity.md) class.

The entity must implement [EntityI](EntityI.md) interface. This interface brings wotk wit IDs (since ID is mandatory for each entity in FiesEar). The best way how to achieve that is extend one of the pre-implemented abstract classes:

  * [AbstractEntity](AbstractEntity.md) numeric ID implementation. IDs are manager automatically (see later).

  * [AbstractStandardEntity](AbstractStandardEntity.md) in addition to [EntityI](EntityI.md), it implements [StandardEntityI](StandardEntityI.md) interface that adds 4 fields providing info about user and date/time when entity instance was created and updated. These values are filled automatically by the [GenericService](GenericService.md) implemetation if user info source service is set up correctly.

### Special methods ###
If your entity class overrides GenericEntity,may override and implement "beforeXXX" methods in the entity. These methods are called by underlying services in case entity is sabed or deleted, but only when standard "save" or "delete" methods are used.

## Entity IDs ##

Each entity must implement [IdI](https://code.google.com/p/fishear/source/browse/fishear-core/src/main/java/net/fishear/Interfaces/IdI.java) interface thus mut contain getId() and setId(...) methods. [EntityI](EntityI.md) interface extends this IdI, so each FishEar entity implements it automatically.

### Numeric IDs ###

[AbstractEntity](AbstractEntity.md) class (and therefore all their successors) implements Long IDs, numetic ID generator is set as generated by extra table named "FE\_SEQGEN". It is managed by framework and you do not need care about it.


### Non-Numeric IDs ###
Your entity may extend [GenericEntity](GenericEntity.md) class, that does not provide any ID. You must provide ID of given type by yourselves. The rest is the same as in [AbstractEntity](AbstractEntity.md)

It is useful in case you build application over existing database where you cannot control data types.